[Published interview 
here](https://coingeek.com/record-label-geist-is-completely-tokenized-and-it-wants-to-make-buying-music-fun-again/)

*Unedited transcript below* 

**GEIST asserts to be the world’s first artist-owned music recording 
label. 
They have released several music NFTs on the BSV blockchain, and has 
recently been more active in the community with the launch of Relay Club. 
I had the opportunity to catch up with founder Shirish Sarkar.**

### 1. For those who are unaware, what exactly is GEIST?

Hey Josh, thanks for having me. 

GEIST is a music recording label that is completely tokenized. We have a 
fungible token called GSTC which is given to both artists and customers. 
This allows for both the audience and the artists to be aligned in their 
incentives and foster the continued growth of the project. We also have an 
NFT set of membership cards, which allow members to receive airdrops of 
music and art on the label and access our token-enabled platforms and 
services. 

Essentially, GEIST seeks to use the distributive, globalized potential of 
the internet to foster a localized, dedicated community. Our thesis is 
that an artist only needs one thousand loyal fans to make an honest, 
middle class living. GEIST seeks to prove that through a business 
structure that we hope can be copied by a myriad of independent labels in 
the years to come, making the experience of buying music and supporting 
artists fun again.
 
### 2. Why have you been more active in the BSV community over the past couple of months?

I originally conceived of a music label using BitCoin in 2018, but it took 
a while for me to understand the economics and structure of it 
practically. I also needed to meet and speak to people who could level up 
my technical understanding of BitCoin. We started releasing full albums as 
NFTs last September and have formalized the structure of the business more 
recently with the launch of Relay Club.
 
### 3. Why have you listed your music NFTs for such a low price (below $1)?

It is our goal to have a low entry point into the GEIST ecosystem, such 
that customers can act as distributors or entrepreneurs themselves through 
the products we make. The goal is to foster a much more meaningful 
relationship between consumers and artists. We have already seen people 
buy multiple copies of our music for very cheap and then try to resell a 
few copies, undercutting our own list price, while the label collects a 
royalty. We believe this model has a lot more lasting potential as we 
continue to release more music.

Since switching to our membership card system, we’ve been airdropping all 
digital music to our cardholders for free. As a result, cardholders are 
now able to value and price the music as they see fit.
  
### 4. What is the purpose of the GEIST membership cards?

The first five catalogued GEIST albums were released as individual NFTs 
for sale, mostly as an experiment. But we eventually decided that a better 
idea would be to utilize airdops to reward customers for becoming a part 
of our project. 

We conceptualized a ‘club’, where customers would pay a one-time entry to 
receive a membership card NFT, upon which they would receive a share 
ofGSTC token. From now on, we intend to airdrop all of our digital music 
tokens and art directly to the holders of these cards, thereby giving them 
the opportunity to become distributors of the work. They are free to 
exchange and value them as they wish. 

The card also enables access to our tokenized site - geist.live. This is a 
video platform where we will be streaming live performances, DJ sets, host 
conversations, live coding tutorials, and much more - all exclusively 
accessible by holding a GEIST membership card.
 
### 5. How does Bitcoin enable independent music artists or record labels to earn compared to the traditional industry?

There has been much said on this topic as regards micropayments and 
programmable contracts, and I look forward to seeing more innovative uses 
of this technology. The only thing I would like to add to the conversation 
at this time is that BitCoin allows for the entire process of earning 
royalties off creative work to be simple. On BitCoin, ownership is 
streamlined and verifiable. Tokenization allows for contractual agreements 
to be simple and trustless. NFTs allow for novel earning structures and 
new ways for creatives to connect with their audiences. All of this 
together brings about a new paradigm where many more people will be able 
to earn for their work, turning a top-down, hegemonic pyramid-like 
structure into numerous small galaxies. 
 
### 6. What are your thoughts on paying a micropayment each time a song is played, as streamable.fm has implemented?

I think it’s a great idea. I do believe this is the future for the wider 
music listening audience, and I have my own developing ideas on how to 
implement it. 
 
### 7. What is the purpose of the GSTC fungible token?

GSTC, or GEIST token, is a representation of the label itself. The token 
is given to artists when signing deals with the label for distribution 
rights, and it has so far been given one time directly to customers who 
have purchased a membership card from the label. The token is never sold 
directly to the public by the GEIST label entity.

GSTC is currently in development to act as an automated, tokenized revenue 
split, similar to other apps within the midasvalley.net ecosystem. This 
means that all holders of the token are entitled to receive their share of 
the revenue within the GEIST entity wallet 
(16HmWbtsXxjtQNRcYpeRA39JR1qPyoxVBx) at some fixed interval, such as every 
quarter. As this system is still being developed and is financial in 
nature, I would point any interested parties to the Github repository 
where the GEIST whitepaper is being published: 
https://github.com/GEIST-US/Label-Ideation. 

However, even now, people within the GEIST Club are using the token to 
make deals for the benefit of the label. The latest single from 
@1Freenauts was brought onto the club by the combined efforts of two 
members who each paid a share of their own personal GSTC to make it 
happen. I myself paid an outside developer in GSTC to contract them in 
assisting me with building out the geist.live site. And still, others have 
chosen to sell the token right away. 
 
### 8. You wrote a great article on how you onboarded a teenager onto BSV via NFT sales . Could you talk through how effective it is to onboard users this way?

I appreciate you reading that. It is clearly written for a non-Bitcoiner 
audience, but I think the gist is that BitCoin is immediately and 
obviously effective to those who are looking for something novel and 
creative. With no preconceptions or ideology other than ‘I want to make 
money’, this young girl was able to acclimate to what we’ve all been lead 
to believe is the world’s most niche economy. And yet, within an hour she 
already had the recipe to continue to make money, if she chose to iterate 
on the process. 

It speaks to the limitless potential everyone has to do something cool and 
interesting on BitCoin, if they know they can. All they need to do is ask 
themselves what they can bring to the table. 
 
### 9. What are your thoughts on the Boost protocol by Daniel Krawisz?

BoostPOW and pow.co is in many ways the seed that sprouted GEIST. The 
Boost protocol itself is ingenious, and I recommend all go read Daniel’s 
writings on the subject (https://github.com/DanielKrawisz/Entropy), but 
the greatest benefit for me has been attuning my brain to listen to costly 
signals. Using and understanding Boost alleviates the mental and social 
noise in one’s life. The pow.co developer cooperative works through using 
Github issues that are then boosted so that developers can narrow their 
focus on what is most important. Similarly, GEIST also operates around a 
Github repository and uses issues that can be boosted. The work ethic and 
practice of Daniel and pow.co has been immensely beneficial for me to 
absorb, and I am glad that GEIST is a small part of that system. 
 
### 10. Privately, we have discussed a potential game for the Haste Arcade – is this under the GEIST umbrella?

I am very excited for this and future games to come! GEIST has a fraternal 
relationship with another project, a game studio called Worldbuilder. We 
are currently building out the infrastructure for WB and hope to have our 
first game - Flutter - on Haste Arcade very soon. The protagonist of 
Flutter is, in fact, the very mascot of GEIST themself - Geistie the 
ghost! In the meantime, please visit worldbuilder.us and input your email 
to stay in touch. 
 
### 11. What else is the GEIST team working on?

We continue to build on our different platforms while making and releasing 
music and digital art. We are in constant contact with club members and 
their insights push the rules of our little game, creating novel 
experiences and we’re all having a lot of fun with it! I am grateful to 
have such an intelligent and thoughtful community working with and around 
us.

In the near future, you can expect more airdrops from us, as well as 
physical merchandise like shirts, posters, and stickers - and eventually 
vinyls, cassettes, etc. Our platforms will become more robust and unique, 
providing singular experiences that will allow us to onboard other artists 
who are not familiar with BitCoin. 
We are always looking to push the envelope and be creative in new ways, 
and BitCoin is the best canvas in the world. And as time goes on and GEIST 
matures, I look forward to just being another artist on the label.
 
**Thank you, Shirish, for taking the time to answer my questions. I hope 
the 
readers learned more about GEIST. Check out their NFTs, art and music at: 
https://relayx.com/1geist**
